>> Kyle Simpson: For a while, this was
okay, and then people started saying,
well, web workers aren't useful, because
not only is that inefficient from a memory
perspective, but that also is very
inefficient from a processing perspective.
The whole point of the web
worker is to be off thread and
better, and if I have to make a copy of
my 100 megabytes of data, that's no good.
So they had for a while,
a thing called transferables,
which was a way of basically
creating a special kind of,
like a ray data structure that
you put some data into it and
as soon as you posted it to a web worker,
it went away from the web page.
They literally deleted
it from the web page.
And put it without copying,
into the worker thread.
And then vice versa, as soon as you posted
it from a worker thread back to a page,
it went away from the worker and
put it back.
So there's only ever one copy of
that thing in any given place,
but it's never in both places at once.
That seemed like an interesting and
cool idea, as far as I'm aware,
I mean, they shipped that, but
that's been kinda deprecated.
It seems like they went
away from transferables,
so that doesn't seem like something
that's got much of a future.
About two years ago or so, they shipped
a feature called shared array buffers.
And by they,
I mean the web platform java script.
They shipped a feature
called shared array buffers.
And it was basically like
the V2 of transferables.
So it was a literal shared memory segment
that could be accessed at the same
time from two different threads of java
script, which is a recipe for chaos.
But they also shipped another API
on top of it, called atomics,
which would allow you to do new Texas or
semi fours or some other kind of
blocking remotely so that only one of
the threads was accessing the data,
memory, the shared memory data at that
point, but that was the idea was okay,
we're just gonna stuff stuff
in a shared memory segment.
Ship it off to a worker and
then let it work on it and
then let it tell us when it's done.
So we'll just pull it back out
of the same shared array memory.
That sounds all well and
good until about a year and a half ago.
You might remember the CPU craziness that
happened with the chips,
I think it was called Specter or
something like that, that came out and
it was like being able to read people's
private information out of memory or
out of the process of RAM or something.
I forget all the technical details but
it was essentially something like
a vulnerability in the way
processors worked and
they were able to read this memory.
Well it turns out That that was in
part being exploited on web pages.
Because the way that bug was exploited
requires what's called a high resolution
timer, meaning a timer that has down
to the like nanosecond precision.
That's how those attack
vectors generally work.
And so
we are actually always very careful about
don't ship anything in the web platform
that can give a high resolution timer,
because then people are gonna exploit it.
Well, it turns out shared array memory,
shared array buffers are a perfect way
of implementing high precision timing.
And that's exactly what they did,
is they exploited that feature.
So, very quickly, back like a year and
a half, or whatever,
very quickly, not even six months after
that feature shipped, they shut those off.
So we don't have shared array buffers.
I think maybe one browser
re-shipped it with
the fix in place to prevent timers,
or whatever.
But as far as I know at the moment,
that's still kind of an influx problem.
Every time they give us something cool,
some jerk goes and abuses it and
that's why we can't have nice things.
So, the point is right
now what you can rely
upon cross browser is that you can
send stuff copying strings and
things, so do be aware of that if
you're going to send a bunch of data.